ICICI LBRD's health insurance plans
are quite popular and the biggest reason for this is the
use of latest technology,
innovative plans and a strong
brand image.  But as a policy holder,
our biggest and most common question is
what are the chances of getting a claim in return for our premium?
Leave the terms and conditions of the policy aside.  They
can be different for everyone.  But
what is the company's intention?  How is the intention?
In the matter of making claims.  Brother,
how is the efficiency of the company?  How many claims are being
approved smoothly?  And
how are the financials as well?  That is, does the company have
sufficient money or not to be able to
pay the claims?  Now how will we know all this
?  The easiest way is to
check the data.  In today's video, we will review the
free health insurance claims data of ICIC LBD General Insurance
for you.
Claim Settlement Ratio
to Incurred Claim Ratio.  We will also know
how many health insurance claims have been rejected by ICICI LBD in the last three months
and will also understand
how many complaints the policy holders have against their company.  Not only this,
you will also get to know many other data and ratios
which will help you in understanding the working of the company in a better way.
At the end of the video, we'll review all the data
and all the metrics to see where things are
working well and where we see red
flags.  Whether you have ICICI
LBD Elevate Plan, Max Protect
Advantage or Activate Booster Plan.
In today's video also, you are going to
know about the latest claim trends and
how the company is performing and
if you are an insurance advisor or are
associated with the insurance industry in any way, then watching this video and
understanding these claim trends becomes even more important for you
because you will be able to
understand things better and
take better decisions related to your career and policy.  So what are you waiting for?
Let's quickly start this video.
If you have seen some of the earlier videos of this series
then you must have understood what is Claim Paid
Ratio?  Claim paid ratio
means that if the policy holders
ask for a claim of ₹100 from the company, then
how much money the company approved in return for the claim.  The
amount that has not been approved is the
entire amount of claim rejection
and the amount deducted from the claim is
also included in it.  Its
formula is very simple.  Claim amount
paid means the money paid by the company will be
divided by the total amount claimed.
How much total money was asked for and we
will multiply it by 100 so that this figure
comes before us in percentage.
First, we need to look at the claims numbers.
How many rupees worth of claims were filed
in the first three months of 2025?  So the total claims
reported were ₹170 crore.
Actually this amount is in lakhs but I
will tell you in crores so that you can understand it easily.  A
total of ₹1970 crore worth of claims were filed, of
which claims worth ₹18 crore have
also been reopened.  That means they were closed earlier.
They have been opened again.  So
what is the total?  ₹170 crore.  This included
pending claims worth ₹471 crore which were carried forward
from the previous quarter.
Those who are outstanding have also been added to it.
But at the end of this quarter, the claim
amount which is still under settlement is
₹629 crore.  So to calculate the total claim amount,
first book the claim.
In this we will add reopened claim.  We will
add it inside this.  The outstanding amount
from the previous quarter and from that we will subtract the
outstanding amount at the end of the quarter.  That
means this much total claim amount was
demanded from the company.  Net claim amount can be
assumed to be the amount demanded by the policy holders.
What is the amount paid in return?
That is ₹125 crore.  ₹1425 or ₹26 crore you
can say.  The company paid this much claim.
So let's quickly put this data
into the formula.  Here the total paid
amount became ₹1425 crores.  And how much was the claim made
?  ₹1813 crore.  If we multiply
by 100, the claim paid ratio comes out to be
78.64%,
which means that when ₹100 was asked as claim from the company, out of that
approximately ₹21 out of 100
claims were either rejected by the company
or that much amount was deducted from the claim.
Total amount of money demanded by the policy holders
and how much the company gave in return.
Friends, the next data comes of solvency margin.
Solvency margin means that
now that the company is taking the responsibility through your sum insured
that we will pay you the claims, then
they should also have money and there is
a minimum benchmark for having such money.   There
is a guideline for IRDA issue which
is 1.5 times i.e. if there is a liability of ₹100
then the company should always have ₹150.  So
if we look at the solvency margin of ICICI LBD for the first quarter,
it is 2.70 which is
very comfortable.  That means if they have to pay ₹100 as age sum
insured, then in return they have ₹270
available with them.  This fluency
margin is of ICICI LBA General Insurance
Company because health is one of their
segments.  Still, if there is a pocket then it is common.
So ICICI LBARD General Insurance will have the
money.  If their solvency margins are good
then there will be comfort in health also.
So therefore the overall solvency margin is
2.70.  The next ratio we will look at is the claims
reputation ratio.  Claim reputation ratio
means how many claims the company has rejected.
In this we will see two figures.  First of all,
see the amount and how much amount has been refused.
And secondly, we will see
how many claims out of 100 were repudiated by the company.
This will show that the company is not making too many
claims and is not building its reputation.  She is
not rejecting.  So the formula to calculate the claim reputation amount
is Amount Reputed,
that is, the amount which the company refused to pay,
we will divide it
by the total amount claimed and then multiply it
by 100.  So we will get the
reputation ratio of the total amount that how much
claim money was asked by the policy holders
and how much claim was rejected by the company.
So the first figure that comes is Claim
Reputed during the period.  This is 322 88
i.e. claims worth Rs 3223 crore were rejected by the company.
Now the question arises how many claims were demanded?
We have already extracted that data.  This is the
total claim of around Rs 1813 crore sought from the company.
So now we just have to fit these two figures
into this formula.  The
company refused to pay the claim totalling ₹322 crore.  The
demanded ₹1813 crore will be multiplied
by 100.  So the company refused to pay the claim of approximately ₹18.
Now this is
how much money was refused to be given and
how many claims were refused to be given.  There can be a
lot of difference between these two figures.
Now this figure shows how much
money has been refused to be given.  But now we
will check how many of the total claims filed were
rejected by the company.
For that we have to calculate the claims
reputation ratio by number of claims.  And
its formula is also very simple.
Claims reputed: The number of claims denied will be divided
by the number of
claims filed and multiplied
by 100.  So as you can see in the figure, the
total claims booked in this
quarter were 3224
claims.  3224
claims were booked within three months.   were
recorded.  Some claims were reopened.
102124 claims were reopened.  There were
some outstanding claims which were carried forward
from the previous quarter.   There can be
acceptance or rejection among them also.
So we will add them inside this.
That was 44,273
claims.  But some remained outstanding at the end of the quarter.  If no
decision is taken on them then
we will deduct it from these claims.
And these claims which will be carried forward
to the next quarter are
claims.  That means 64654 claims were carried forward
to the next quarter.  And
after adjusting this, we will assume that the total claims
on which the decision has been taken are
claims.  Now how much are the claims reputed?   It is
clearly written that 4971
claims have been rejected by the reputed
company.  Because here it is mentioned that
claims are reputed during the period.  So
let's calculate the reputation ratio by number of claims.
claims that were rejected will be
divided by 31947
claims which is the total number of claims on which decision was taken
that will be multiplied by 100 i.e. 15.73%
i.e. 100 claims were filed out of which
approximately 16 claims were rejected by the company.
Now, whether this
reputation ratio is low or high,
all the discussion will be done in the recap section.
Once we extract all the data, I will
tell everyone one by one
which data is correct and where there
is more problem.  The next ratio comes friends,
Incident Claim Ratio i.e. ICR.
ICR tells us
how much money the company earned as premium
within these three months and how many claims it paid in return.
And from this Incurred Claim
Ratio we come to know whether the company is
just taking money or it is also
settling the claims properly.  This means that there
needs to be a balance between the two and
we get to know that from the ICR Incident Claim Ratio.
Its formula is Net Incident Claims, that is, the amount
of claims expenses incurred by the company, the
net incurred claims, that will be
divided by the net premium earned.  Net
Earn Premium means how much
premium he has earned for this year within these three
months, that will be multiplied
by 100 and these figures are given clearly here.  The
net incurred amount of claims
is ₹1524 crore, which is the total expenditure incurred, the
net expenditure incurred on the claims on the company.  The
second amount we need is the
net earned premium.  That is,
how much total premium has been earned?
How much money have the policy holders given to the company?  That is
₹187 crores.  They have received a premium of ₹187 crore
in this quarter.  So
for the incurred claim ratio, we will divide the claims money
given by the company.  The
premium earned by him is
multiplied by 100 and his incurred
claim ratio comes out to be 80.79
and this is only for health insurance.   There is
no premium add-on for any motor, marine or fire.  I have taken here only the figures and the amount of health,
personal accidental and travel, that is, the
segment of total health.   The
incurred claims ratio is 81%.  Keep in mind, we will
review it during the recap.
Next comes the data of top selling
states i.e. where ICICI LBRD
policies are being purchased the most.  The
data is now visible to you on the screen.
You can check the status from here.
But let me tell you the top five states.
Where the maximum number of policies have been
purchased is of ICICI LBRD.  First is
obvious.  You have seen that when we review every company, then
in Maharashtra the
maximum number of policies worth ₹935 crores have been bought
from ICICI LBRD. If we talk about the health insurance
segment, then policies worth ₹495 crores have been bought from Delhi NCR, ₹
29697 crores from Karnataka, ₹213 crores have been bought
in Tamil Nadu in this
quarter and in Telangana approximately ₹
100 crores premium has been collected
by ICICI LBRD in this first quarter
of 2025 and these are the figures of only health segment i.e.
travel health and personal accidental
policies.  Now friends, comes the
most important segment that
how many complaints do the policy holders have against ICICI Labord?  Brother, the
plans may be innovative but
how many complaints are there regarding claims and other complaints?  So now the
section is to see the number of complaints.
Now you know that the data of complaints of ICICI
Lo Lambar General Insurance Company is
also
given by General Insurance.  The
data of separate complaints of health insurance is
not mentioned here.  But still we will try to
estimate whether the number of
complaints is high or low.  So
for this, first of all we will see the number of complaints
related to claims because we
are interested in that only because the rest of the
complaints get sorted out.
The policy has not been received.  The premium
is too low, the refund has not been received.  Everything gets sorted out.  A
total of 12,291 complaints were filed.
That will relate to the claim.  And these are the
complaints registered in the overall general insurance, health insurance and total segment, out of which
356 complaints were
fully accepted.
229 complaints were partially accepted and
683 complaints were rejected.
But this is a general insurance complaint.
Let us try to estimate the complaints related to health insurance.  As it is,
with the data of complaints and claims, if we take the average of 10,000
complaints, then the amount
comes out to be 125 12 of the number of complaints,
that is, you can say 12 complaints, but
how many complaints are there per 10,000 claims?  There
are 12 complaints.  But this number of
claims is 10,51,000
claims in total.  This is for the entire general insurance
business.  To understand how many complaints there are in health, first of all
we have to find out the percentage of health claims, that is, out of the
overall claims filed,
what percentage were health insurance
claims.  So for this, first of all
we need the health claims number.   There may be
complaints regarding outstanding claims.  Reported claims
that were reported within this quarter
may contain complaints.
So the total number that comes out is that there are
claims in which there may be complaints.
We will divide this by the total number of claims
filed including overall general insurance and
multiply by 100.  So this percentage comes out
that out of the total claims, which
is approximately 10.5 lakh claims, 35-36% of them are
health insurance claims.
Will health insurance complaints also
be in the same ratio as the
number of claims?  It's not like that.
In health insurance, the number of
complaints is high, specifically
related to claims.  So for this we will
take the worst case scenario to see
how many maximum health complaints can there be.
So for that, the
share of claims i.e.
how many health insurance claims have come out of the total claims?  36%
I will take double share of the number of
complaints.  That means 70% of complaints are
health claims.  So there were total 1291
complaints,
I assume 70% of these are health related complaints
because there is a lot of concern here.  The
total number of claims is
and if we take the average of 10000 claims,
then through this formula the total complaints
of health insurance comes out to be 24,
this is an approximate estimate
and I have taken the share of
complaints which is double the share of health claims, even then
it comes out to be only 24 complaints.  Are
these complaints less or
more?  We will check how it compares to the companies we have reviewed earlier
in the recap and review segment.  The
next ratio, friends, is the
claim settlement ratio.  Claim settlement
ratio tells that if 100
claims were filed in the company, how many of them were
approved by the company.  This ratio
is very important and it helps us understand
how interested the company is in settling the claim.  Whether
she is settling the claims well
or not.  Its formula is number
of claims settled divided by number of
claims filed.  Divide the total claims settled by
the number of claims filed
and multiply by 100.  So let's
see what the figures are.  The total claims
booked along with those reopened and
those outstanding after that will be added
as these can be settled.
Of these, claims have been settled.
But
we will deduct the outstanding claims as no
decision has been taken on them.  So the total net
claims filed on which decisions were
taken are 31947
claims.  Now how many of these claims has the
company paid?  That's 262,876
claims.  What have you done to the rest?  It has been reputed
, it has been rejected.  The claim
settlement ratio derived from this data is
84.27,
i.e., 100 claims were filed.  So approximately 84
claims have been approved by the company.  16
claims 16 claims were rejected and
rejected.  Now let's do a quick recap.  The
ratio data we have extracted are
good, bad, how are they?  Let
me tell you my opinion on them.  The
first data we collected was the claims paid
ratio, that is, how much money the company paid for every ₹100 claim
and that was 78.64,
which I think is the lowest amount among the other companies
we have compared so far, be it Star, NVPA or K
Health.
In the remaining three companies, the companies have given more claim money
but only ₹100.  The second data
we extracted is the solvency margin which is 2.70
which is very comfortable.  That means there is
no such problem that the company is
short of money.  Because of this, if he does
not pay the claim or the money, then there is no shortage of money
here at all.  The next
data we extracted here was the claims
reputation ratio by amount, i.e., when a claim of ₹100 was
demanded from the company, how much
money did it refuse to pay?  So here this
amount comes out to be 17.80.  But when
I matched the data, there
is some difference of approximately ₹ crores which figures
are not mentioned here.  Hence, the difference
that we had calculated earlier in the claims paid
ratio was
approximately ₹22.  But here
it is coming out to be approximately ₹18.  So on an average,
you can assume that out of 100, the company has
not paid ₹20 for health insurance,
travel and accidental claims.  This is still a huge
amount that the company has
not paid for the data.  Now let's talk about
claims reputation ratio by number of
claims.  That means, if 100 claims were filed,
how many of them were rejected by the company
?  And that is 15.73, which means
approximately 16 claims were rejected by the company.
Now this means that the company is not settling the claims
properly.  Now this can be
understood to mean that the company is
repudiating and rejecting a lot of claims.  The
percentage of approval will also be
very low.  Now,
I would not say that these data and these figures are good for a brand like ICICI,
but that is why only data tells us the complete truth
and only then we should trust the data.  The
next ratio we calculated was
ICR i.e. Incurred Claim Ratio.
How many claims is the company paying in return for the amount of money it is earning as premium?
What percentage of these two comes out
?  So that is 80.79%.
Now look from here, I see two things.  The
first thing is that the claims
data shows that the company is
not approving many claims.   She is
not giving much money either.  But
their incurred claim ratio is very high.
As a policy holder,
we can say that this incurred claim ratio is very good.  But
this unresolved claim ratio is not 81 because the
company is settling a lot of claims.
This may also be because the company's
premium earnings, net earned
premium, may have also decreased.
Due to which this unresolved claim ratio increased.
Because according to the number of claims and the total
amount claimed, the company is
settling very few claims.  Now
friends, let's talk about the number of complaints,
through average we found that there could be 24
complaints and it may be
less than that also.  We have taken this worst case
scenario because the
share of health claims in the total number of claims
in the general insurance business is double that of
complaints for health
insurance, yet it comes out to be 1002 complaints.
This also means that
policy holders are not too worried or
complaining.  Whatever the reason,
complaints are not high in health insurance and overall
general insurance.  And the
final data that we extracted was CSR
i.e. Claim Settlement Ratio 84.27, which
means the company is settling approximately 84 claims out
of 100. If you add this and the Claim
Reputation Ratio, the number of claims reputed and
rejected, which I mentioned are 16 claims, then that comes
to
100%, which means 16 claims out of 100 were reputed, that was the
reputation ratio of the approved and
settled claims settlement ratio,
that was 84.27%.
Now, is this less or more, this is very less
because we believe, look, ICICI
LMA, we understand the brand.
We buy policies keeping the brand in mind and complaints also
show that the policy holders are
not much worried.  But the number of claims that the company is
approving is
not satisfactory.  The data we have seen so far from
Nevapa is even more than this.  Care has a
claim settlement ratio of 9394%.  But the
data here shows that the claim settlement
ratio is 84.27%.
Now the reason for this could also be that many
claims are pending here.
claims are pending.  Many of these
claims can also be approved.  But
we did not consider these while calculating the claim settlement ratio.
We had
minus them.  The second important thing
I noticed here is the number of
pending claims.  That means the pending claims
that are going into the next quarter are a
very large number.  64654
claims are pending.  Whereas the total number of
claims is only around 3 lakh.
6 to 7 lakh claims were filed in Star Health Insurance
in this quarter.  Even his
outstanding claims at the end of the
quarter were not that many.  Now what does this show
?  This shows that the company's claim
settlement efficiency, and not the
time within which it settles claims, is
also very low.  This means that time is being taken to settle the claims
and hence
a large chunk of claims remains unsettled and
hence at the end of the quarter it is
shown under outstanding claims.
Now
after reviewing the first quarter data of ICICI LBARD Health Insurance,
some things come to light.  First of all, the
company is settling only 84-85% of the claims.  This
means that a large number of claims
are rejected and this affects the
claim reputation i.e. claims paid ratio.  That means a
lot of money is being refused.
If the claim is rejected, it
means that the company did not pay that money and
because of this the company is not paying approximately ₹20 out of 100.
Whether it is claim
rejection or claim reputation.  The
complaints from policy holders are
not many.  Even if we count double the number of complaints than the health claim ratio,
it still has the lowest number of complaints among all the four companies we have reviewed so far.
And the fourth and final point I
would like to say here is that the outstanding
claims at the end of the quarter can
impact and influence this entire data somewhere or the other.
And this is not
a good figure for policyholders overall
given the large claims
outstanding at the end of the quarter.  And right now the situation
is absolutely normal.  It is not like a pandemic
that a lot of claims came in all of a sudden.
This is why it is outstanding.  This
is a normal scenario.  These are normal figures
of claims.  But still the outstanding amount
is huge which
shows the efficiency of claim settlement which seems to be very slow.
What is your opinion about the claims data of ICICI LBD Health Insurance? Please let me know by commenting.
You can also share what you understood and what else you noticed.
And after ICICI LBAD, which next two or
three health insurance companies' data do you
want to review?  Please do tell me by commenting whose video we should
make for you.
We will review all the companies one by one and finally compare them to
find the top five or four companies whose data will be
excellent in every respect so that we can
understand with clarity
where each company stands in terms of
claims settlement quality.  I will meet
you in the next video.  Till then take
care, stay fit and stay healthy.  Jai Hind.